Let me tell you a Christmas story
Or, a Christmas hoist, for this is from a time when computer files names
was limited to eight characters
It is December 1987
Ronald Reagan was the US President, Margaret Thatcher was British Prime Minister
And home computers had just become a reality
The few who had them, however, were not really connected to others
machines.
We were still two years away from the internet head was invented
And at a small university in Germany
was a student by writing one of the first major computer worms
It was called "Christma"
Simple program, it only ran on one type of old text, omm
now old, text-based computer
Back then it was the latest
It showed only a piece of text shaped like a Christmas tree
But while the user looked at it,
Went through 1987's version of the computer's contacts and emailed himself
to all addresses in it
"Let this exec exec" said it - "exec" is a executable file
a program you start - "and enjoy it"
By modern standards of Ransomeware and identity theft,
was this a pretty innocent virus,
although it copied itself so well and convinced so many people to open it,
that it dropped one of IBM's networks for a few days
- And that was when IBM was still a player of importance
In fact, it did it twice
It re-emerged three years later, presumably
someone forgot what it was when they searched through their files and opened -
"Oh yes, that's the fun little Christmas card again"
Which leads us to a question
That kind of attack is still possible now, on modern hardware
Not the same program, but that's how much malware is still spread
You convince the user to download a program and then run it
and it gets access to everything on the user's PC
Internet, webcam, personal documents, ALT.
Email is not a good way to spread that kind of thing anymore,
But web pages offering pirate downloads do the job as well
And yes, there are other methods
there are zero-day attacks on Flash actually,
many zero-day attacks on Flash. Actually
It is almost only zero-day attack on Flash right now
Zero-day means that no warning is given
zero days from the virus are released and infect people
and Adobe trying to patch on Flash, again -
There are other methods
But eventually, if you say, Hey, to a user
Free music, free pirate software,
Free Christmas backgrounds for your PC, whatever you want
you can get them to pick up something and run it - and then it's over.
There are some measures today
Windows has user account control and built-in antivirus
and Mac and Linux have administrator accounts and permission management,
but if Malwaren tries to do something about the important parts of the system,
it will be stopped as long as the user does not just press the OK field
or write their password, but let's be honest
It happens much more often than it should
But even without permission
Even if the virus you downloaded can just use your account and yours
files:
It can still do a lot of damage
It can encrypt all files in your personal drive
all your photos and business contracts
and lock them in until you send Bitcoins to an anonymous person far away
For the computer that naively runs a program
There is no difference between a virus that damages
and the user who deliberately drives something to do the same things
You can't make a filter against malicious behavior like that
without having an almost perfect model of what the user thinks
and what they would like to do
There are sometimes, sincerely,
you want to delete everything on a computer
However, there is another resort
And we use it all the time.
For example, on an iPhone, each app has its own separate area to store data
There is no central area that all apps can access at once
Imagine that PC was made like this:
all reports or homework made in Word
are only available in Word
And if you want to send a report to someone.
or convert to another program
Don't go - if you wanted to attach the file to an email program
don't you go to the email program,
Press "Attach" and direct through your centrally stored documents - you open Word
and you are asked to push one file to the email program
All your music would only be available in the program you downloaded it
until you pushed it somewhere else.
And right now, all the technical people who see this, all of you.
I'm out there and say.
"oh it would be terrible, it's a nasty thing,
It would mean that we would not be free to use our computers as we wanted
how should i link these three different programs together
to do this strange thing I have to do "?
And I understand it.
I sincerely understand it.
I support this kind of scam with enthusiasm
and for anyone looking deep into their system that knows the way around
this kind of advanced fashion is needed
But why didn't we build that kind of system,
those for the not so technological, disgusting?
Because we never had the opportunity
The PCs we have today are descendants of the old systems from 1987
There was not enough space or power at that time to give each application
its own small silo and control it separately - by the way
In many cases, the programs were just writing ones and zeros
Computers were for academic use, for professionals,
so it was really expensive equipment to be treated with care
But for the modern normal user, for people who are hit by Ransomeware
and for those who lose all their family photos: I'm not sure that system works for you.
Do normal computer users really need to see C drive or Macintosh HD?
Should they worry about folders and backups?
We have that system because it has to work with previous generations
because we never had a clean break from PCs
Even Apple has said that their users are moving with time
They give some years of forgiveness for staying up-to-date - and, blessed
Windows is still happy to run programs from twenty years ago
There has never been an opportunity to start a fresh one
If they ever stopped using that metaphor with folders of files in one central location
- and it has been promised plenty of times -
All the old programs will stop working
But for all the brand new devices that we have only had in the last few years?
For tablets, phones and Chromebooks,
with their locked systems? In the scenes, they use guaranteed
Still there there directories and files system
but it is not visible to the user
As such devices become more and more popular,
and the PC's market share begins to decline, at least for home use:
Maybe we could leave that old system
and computer security will be just a little better
Except.
One of the reasons why Britain has such a strong technology industry now
is the home computer boom from the 1980s
when the BBC Micro and ZX Spectrum founded a generation that could program
We see authorities working and working on children to find out computers
so they know they can write the future as well as they can read it
And as much as the confinement of computers and systems might make everything more secure:
One cannot write iPhone apps on an iPhone
and someone has to write iPhone apps
so no matter if you hope for a new laptop with files and folders
or a new phone with separate data silos
or maybe a little less technologically under the Christmas tree:
Merry Christmas to you.
And whether it is digital or physical
No matter whether you are writing programs or painting art
or, just build a snowman:
here is something for the next thing you do,
and we will see in 2016
Translated by: Ulrik Jellum Translation by: Ulrik Jellum